This is going to be a short demo, where I'm going to show you how to drain a node. I'm going to
show this on our minikube cluster.
We only have one note.
So I'm just going to drain that one.
So, "kubectl get node".
You have one note in the ready status.
Let me just get us something, I am going to create our "helloworld-deployment"
So, let me get the pod list.
So, all three pods are running on one note.
Now, let's do "drain" nodename is "minikube".
The name minikube comes from getting nodes. So, these pods are all going to be removed
and can all be rescheduled.
So, I'm just going to use force and if do "kubectl get node", then we can see that scheduling is disabled,
we don't have any pods running on it anymore.
They're all pending, because they can't schedule on it anymore.
If you would try these on your Alus cluster launched with kops you would see that these nodes then run
on a different node.
So that's very simply shown how drain works and how we can use it when you need to put a node in maintenance.